---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Switchboard Attestation Program
---

The Switchboard Attestation Program is a Solana contract that verifies
attestation quotes on-chain to grant or revoke oracle permissions. Switchboard
oracles are required to submit a quote on-chain every 7 days or have this
permissions revoked.

The Switchboard Attestation Program is a vital component of the Switchboard V3
ecosystem, aiming to enhance the security, trust, and decentralization of oracle
services provided by Switchboard. The program leverages the power of Trusted
Execution Environments (TEEs) to create a secure, verifiable, and trustless
environment for oracles to operate within.

In previous versions, Switchboard's security model relied on economic
incentives, where data reporters were rewarded or penalized based on their
proximity to the median of all reported data. Oracle operators were required to
lock up a portion of economic stake and obtain explicit operating approval from
the oracle queue's authority. While this model provided a certain level of
decentralization and security, it faced limitations in aligning the incentives
of oracles with the supported DeFi protocols.

The Switchboard Attestation Program in V3 addresses these limitations by
utilizing TEEs. TEEs enable the creation of unique digital signatures for the
software running within them and the data generated from that software. This
makes it possible to securely and verifiably confirm the integrity and
authenticity of the oracles and their executions.

With the Attestation Program, Switchboard V3 allows for:

- **Oracle Verification**: Oracles are encapsulated within TEEs, generating a
  unique digital signature that can be posted on-chain for public verification.
  This ensures that the oracles can be trusted while maintaining a decentralized
  and verifiable system.

- **Execution Verification**: As the oracles participate in a queue and handle
  user requests, the executions of data feeds, functions, and other tasks can be
  verifiably carried out. This allows users to confirm that the transactions
  being sent are strictly dictated by the code that created them, ensuring the
  integrity and security of the system.

The Switchboard Attestation Program is a crucial step forward in ensuring the
security, trustworthiness, and decentralization of the Switchboard V3 ecosystem.
By leveraging the power of TEEs and their unique attestation capabilities,
Switchboard V3 empowers developers to build secure and feature-rich
decentralized applications with confidence.
