---
title: "Dialed in with Switchboard: April 18, 2022"
description: ""
authors: [gallynaut]
tags: []
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

# Dialed in with Switchboard: 4–18–22

> _Dialed in with Switchboard is a weekly newsletter about the various updates
> with Switchboard._

And we’re back with another edition of Dialed in with Switchboard. Thank you to
everyone we met at the Solana hacker house. The speed at which this developer
ecosystem is growing can only be witnessed in person.

And also thank you to all of the Riptide hackathon submissions that were built
with Switchboard. It was an impressive lineup and we’re excited to see how they
grow within the Solana ecosystem.

<iframe src="https://medium.com/media/9d5f54a40ec0574b4800b1d0ae78185c" frameborder="0"></iframe>

## Anchor Fetch

Project Serum’s Anchor framework provides a common Interface Design Language
(IDL) which specifies how programs written in Anchor store data on-chain and
serialize instructions. The IDL gives developers a quick way to hook into
programs without needing to integrate the program’s specific API. In fact, you
can view any Anchor program account using the Solana explorer and visually view
the on-chain data.

**Note:** Switchboard V2 is written in Anchor and you can view its IDL at
[docs.switchboard.xyz/idl](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/idl).

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/0*FCkUyyrA4q91chR6)

With that said, Switchboard has now added support to fetch any Anchor account
with its newly added
[AnchorFetchTask](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/api/tasks#anchorfetchtask). The
publisher specifies the program ID and account address, and the Switchboard
oracle will return the JSON representation of the parsed account data. This can
then be chained with a
[JsonParseTask](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/api/tasks#jsonparsetask) to return
a single value from any Anchor account. This new feature allows developers to
build complex oracles based on any Anchor account field.

## Defi Kingdoms

Switchboard has also added the
[DefiKingdomsTask](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/api/tasks#defikingdomtask) to
allow publishers to build data feeds that return the swap price of a token on
DeFi Kingdoms. DeFi Kingdoms is a DeFi game built on ETH with in-game tokens and
NFTs that players can trade.

## Conclusion

Oracles will need to update to
[dev-v2–4–12–22h](https://hub.docker.com/layers/node/switchboardlabs/node/dev-v2-4-12-22h/images/sha256-b38d80e0ab11c1329dc32897967120da625dab435c155ceb409a1175b5af6996?context=explore)
to leverage these new tasks.

Building on Solana? Please find us on
[telegram](http://telegram.switchboard.xyz/) so we can connect and build
together. We’re always looking for new teams that can leverage Switchboard and
are happy to build new task types to support your needs.
