---
sidebar_position: 80
slug: /faq
---

# FAQ

Below are some frequently asked questions to help get you started with
Switchboard.

## Core

### What is Switchboard?

Switchboard is a permission-less, customisable, multi-chain oracle protocol for
general-purpose (price, sports, events data) data feeds and verifiable
randomness.

The idea behind the company name, Switchboard was derived from the early stages
of phone networks. In the past, telephone operators shuffled telephone lines
around a switchboard to complete a circuit and forward a dialer’s call to the
next hop in the circut. Similarly, Switchboard is responsible for how data is
fetched and published through an oracle to reach its program.

Participants of the Switchboard protocol are named, Switchboard Operators.

### Why do blockchains require an oracle?

Blockchains are unable to acces off-chain information to themselves, hence
oracle solutions are required to bridge this gap to enable on-chain applications
to query information from the real world.

### What is an oracle?

An oracle is a gateway between blockchain and real world data.

An oracle is not the data source, it is an infrastructure layer for querying,
verifying and authenticating external data sources; which is relayed to the
blockchain for a smart contract to read and carry out necessary course of action
for its intended product.

### What is the ‘oracle problem’?

Incorrect reporting can lead to devastating outcomes for on-chain applications
dependent on the data feeds. Different oracle solutions vary in their approach
to solving the problem, often making different tradeoffs between relying on
highly centralized, trusted data providers, or more-decentralized networks with
economic and cryptographic security measures. Similarly, different use cases
vary in their requirements for speed, fidelity, and resolution of their data
feeds.

Other oracle solutions require developers to choose from a limited selection of
data feeds, and offer no easy way to publish their own custom feed for the data
sources they need. In a dynamic, changing world, this versatility is critical to
unlock the full potential of decentralized applications.

### How does Switchboard solves this?

**Permission-less**: Developers can build their own data feeds, and optionally
spin up an application-specific free-standing oracle network for their feeds,
called an _oracle queue._

**Customization**: Different feeds and queues can be configured with a variety
of parameters, allowing developers to decide for themselves how to optimally
balance decentralization, security, and speed for their own unique use case.

**Decentralization**: Developers can decide between flexible governance options,
such as DAO governance, multisigs, privileged admins, or immutable definitions.

### How decentralized is the Switchboard Network?

### What is Switchboard’s economic model?

### How does Switchboard ensure high-quality/reliable data to be curated/published on-chain?

### What is the difference between a permissioned and permission-less queue?

## Switchboard ecosystem

### Who is part of the Switchboard ecosystem?

The roler players who belongs to the Switchboard ecosystem consists of Oracle
(node) operators, Curators, Publishers and the feed consumers themselves.

Find out more about the role players in the Switchboard ecosystem here:
[https://switchboard.xyz/ecosystem](https://switchboard.xyz/ecosystem)

### Who is a Oracle (node) operator?

**Oracle operators** are the engine of the network, who maintain and run oracles
that exist between the blockchain and Web 2.

### Who is a Curator?

**Curators** are the explorers of the network and are responsible for populating
feed templates for Publishers to browse and build their data feeds.

### Who is a Publisher?

**Publishers** are the builders of the network and are responsible for browsing
the catalog and building, configuring, funding and publishing the data feeds.

### Who is a feed consumer?

**Feed consumers** are the end users of the network such as protocols or
developers. Protocols can be utilizing them to plug into their smart contracts
to power their specific applications; whereas developers can be utilizing them
to start their own side projects or learning to put oracles to use.

They are encouraged to help fund the leases of the utilized-feeds.

## Products

### What is Switchboard’s Explorer?

Explorer is an explore page where users scour for **published feeds** (that has
fixed parameters) and are able to take a feed’s public key to integrate it into
their programs.

### What is Switchboard’s Publisher?

Publisher is a core application where users shop for **curated feed templates**.
Other than looking for pre-curated/published feeds, Publisher has an in-built
low-code developer tool to Build-Your-Own-Feed. After selecting a curated feed
template or building out a feed, users will go through a configuration panel to
customise their parameters to fit to specific use case. At the end, the user
will sign 3 transactions to build, fund and gain authority to the feed.

### What is Switchboard’s Verifiable Random Function (VRF)?

Blockchains are not hardware, hence, true randomness is not achievable.
Switchboard’s VRF was modelled after Algorand’s **pseudo-random functio**n
implementation allowing verifiable randomness to be generated on-chain. Use
cases such as Casinos, game theory, NFT minting mechanism can be relied on VRF.

## Use cases and integrations

## Updates

### How can I stay-up-to-date to Switchboard news?

Switchboard has a diverse set of communication tools for our community. Check
them out below to stay up to date!

Twitter:
[https://twitter.com/switchboardxyz](https://twitter.com/switchboardxyz)

Medium: [https://switchboardxyz.medium.com](https://switchboardxyz.medium.com/)

Discord: [https://discord.gg/switchboardxyz](https://discord.gg/switchboardxyz)

Telegram: [https://t.me/switchboardxyz](https://t.me/switchboardxyz)

For more links:
[https://linktr.ee/switchboardxyz](https://linktr.ee/switchboardxyz)

### How do I keep up with protocol development?

github, crates,

### How can I reach out to Switchboard for support?

discord, telegram tickets

### How can I participate as a community member?

twitter for marketing campaigns

discord for workshops and bootcamps

### How can I participate as a developer in building Switchboard?
