---
title: "Switchboard V2 (pt. 1) — Roles and Responsibilities"
description: ""
authors: [gallynaut]
tags: []
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

# Switchboard V2 (pt. 1) — Roles and Responsibilities

Switchboard V1 let us show the community how data can be routed on-chain and
provided to smart contracts. Since inception, Switchboard has been adopted by
many projects across the Solana ecosystem including Mango Markets, Saber, LIQ,
and Solend, but we’re not done there. Switchboard V2 will build upon these
concepts and give more power to the community to determine the direction of the
project. Over the next few weeks we will be rolling out more information on the
design of V2 and look to the community for feedback. Without further ado, here
is an overview of some of the roles and responsibilities for Switchboard V2.

![How Data Feeds Are Added to the Network](./assets/2021-09-30-Switchboard-V2-Roles-and-Responsibilities_Roles.png)

<!--truncate-->

Switchboard V2 allows the community to decide which data should live on-chain.
Below are the main roles of the Switchboard ecosystem, and the functions each
role performs:

![](./assets/2021-09-30-Switchboard-V2-Roles-and-Responsibilities_AllTheData.png)

**Curators** are the visionaries of the network and are responsible for finding
off-chain data the community may like to see on-chain and submitting proposals
to a registry. Curators are then rewarded with a percentage of revenue generated
from a data feed to incentivize community curation. The registry acts as a “Data
Store” where people can view proposed on-chain data.

**Publishers** are responsible for browsing the registry and building data feeds
from a collection of “jobs” (endpoints). Publishers then finalize the data feed
configuration including its update interval, provide the upfront capital to fund
the data feed over a specified interval, and submit the data feed to the DAO for
the community to vote on.

The **DAO** has a few key responsibilities which include voting on adding
potential data feeds to the network. The DAO lets the community decide what data
should be published on chain.

If a submitted data feed has a low refresh rate such that it does not tax the
existing queue, it will be automatically granted permission to the network. Once
a data feed has been accepted to the network, it will be added to the oracle
queue and updated at its specified interval set by the publisher.

![How Oracles Are Added to the Network](./assets/2021-09-30-Switchboard-V2-Roles-and-Responsibilities_Nodes.png)

**Oracles** are nodes who are responsible for fulfilling network requests and
act as the intermediary between the Solana blockchain and the internet. Oracles
with a set amount of capital staked are automatically granted approval to the
network. Oracles can also be added to the network by submitting a DAO proposal
and letting the community vote. An oracle is then ready to fulfill job requests
after a specified warm up period. Future articles will go into further details
with the incentives nodes have to remain honest.

As you can see Switchboard V2 puts more power into the hands of the community.
The DAO is responsible for what data is available on-chain and which nodes can
fulfill those requests. We are excited to roll out the next iteration of
Switchboard and can’t wait to see what the community builds with Switchboard!
