---
title: "Switchboard V2 (pt.2) — Architecture and Data Flows"
description: ""
authors: [gallynaut]
tags: []
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

# Switchboard V2 (pt.2) — Architecture and Data Flows

In a previous article we looked at the different stakeholders and how they
operate within Switchboard V2. Today’s article will focus on the technical
components and how they interact with each other. So let’s jump right in.

## Overview

**_What is a Data Feed?_**

A data feed is the centerpiece of Switchboard and is what on-chain developers
will use when building smart contracts. A data feed is a collection of jobs that
get aggregated to produce some deterministic result. Each job is associated with
an endpoint and has a number of tasks that get executed in sequential order in
order to produce a single value. Typically the first task in a job will fetch
external data with subsequent tasks responsible for parsing the response and
transforming the value into a single data type, like an integer or decimal. When
an oracle is assigned to process a data feed update, the oracle executes the
defined jobs and publishes the median result on-chain. The data feed then
computes the final value as the median response among the assigned oracles. In
summary, the data feed is the blueprint for how data gets fetched from off-chain
sources.

![](./assets/2021-10-12-Switchboard-V2-Architecture-and-Data-Flows_FeedComposition.jpg)

Along with the jobs, a data feed also includes a configuration dictating how
often a feed should be updated and the minimum number of jobs or oracles that
must respond before accepting a result. The publisher is ultimately responsible
for building a data feed and making the necessary trade-offs as it’s a careful
balance between cost and update interval. The publisher is usually the on-chain
consumer of the data and will have the most familiarity with how the data may be
used to make these considerations.

<!--truncate-->

**_Types of Data Feeds_**

Once a data feed has been configured, it needs to be assigned an oracle queue to
process updates. Data feeds can be public, where they are approved by the DAO
and have access to its oracle queue, or private, where the publisher has their
own oracle infrastructure or agreements with oracle operators to process their
updates. A private feed has the added benefit of embedding API keys within a job
for any endpoints that require authentication, meaning a greater level of trust
is needed between publishers and oracles. These keys will need to be created by
individual oracle operators or provided by the private feed creator. The rest of
this article will be focused on public feeds requiring DAO approval.

**_Lease Contract_**

Oracle queues have a finite amount of resources proportional to its number of
oracles so the DAO may reject new feeds that could cause delays on existing
feeds. The publisher is responsible for creating a lease contract to reserve a
set amount of computer power from the oracle queue. Once a publisher’s feed is
accepted by the DAO, the feed is added to the network and granted permissions to
use the oracle queue resources.

Upon creating a lease contract, the publisher may specify a withdrawal authority
and fund the lease contract to reward oracle operators for processing any future
updates. The withdrawal authority allows a publisher to cancel and refund their
lease contract at any moment and specifies where any remaining lease balance is
sent. The lease fee is derived from the oracle rewards dictated by each oracle
queue. This value can be increased over time to entice additional oracles to
join the queue or decreased to entice additional publishers to submit new feeds.
If a data feed’s lease is low on funds, any update requests will fail and the
feed will be removed from any scheduled updates. As a feed gains popularity,
other dApp developers will be incentivized to extend the lease and keep it
active. This creates a natural decay where unused feeds go unfunded to make room
for new use cases.

**_Oracle Queue_**

The Switchboard DAO governs how its oracle resources get allocated and rewarded.
Oracles are arranged in a round-robin fashion, where once requested, the next N
oracles in the queue are assigned to a feed and cycled to the bottom. Oracle
positions are periodically swapped to mitigate oracles being assigned to the
same feeds each cycle. A single Oracle queue was architected to support over
100,000 oracles, but given rent costs, the initial implementation will cap queue
sizes at 2048 and increase it as the network grows.

## Execution

**_The Crank_**

Data feeds can also be configured so they are updated periodically or
on-command, depending on the feed’s use cases. Solana has no mechanism to
schedule periodic updates so a Crank is used to jump start the system. Any feed
approved by the DAO is free to join the oracle queue’s crank. The Crank is a
priority queue of data feed public keys ordered by the feeds next available
update time. When cranked, Switchboard will look for any data feeds ready for an
update and if successful, reward the user who called it. If no data feed is
ready to be updated, the crankers transaction will fail and they could
potentially lose their transaction fee. The crank is the scheduler behind the
oracles and incentivizes users to help keep the system spinning. Anyone can
compete to turn the crank but there can be only one!

![](./assets/2021-10-12-Switchboard-V2-Architecture-and-Data-Flows_Highlander.jpg)

When a data feed update is detected, the oracle queue moves the next N oracles
to the back of the queue and passes the data feed public key to each oracle to
begin processing the update. Each oracle then reads the data feed configuration,
executes each job, then publishes their results on-chain. Oracles are always on
the queue and can process multiple feed updates when requested.

**_Oracle Rewards_**

If enough oracles successfully respond, an on-chain program will aggregate the
assigned oracle results and return the median value as the final result. Each
oracle is then scored based on their response. The variance threshold is
dictated by the DAO on a per queue basis and is used when determining the
validity of an oracle’s response in relation to the accepted, median result.
Oracles within the acceptable range are awarded whatever fee is set by the DAO.
Oracles who’s responses fall outside the acceptable range will be slashed and
must forfeit a set amount of their staked capital. The slashing mechanism
disincentivizes oracles from reporting dishonest data and helps protect the
system from nodes who may have other incentives to return false data. A future
article will detail the various incentives to entice nodes to remain honest.

Each feed keeps track of the number of successful and failed responses. If a
feed has persistent failures, then the feed is removed from the oracle queue and
the publisher is refunded the remaining balance on the lease contract to the
withdrawal authority specified when creating the lease contract.

The diagram below depicts the system in action:

![](./assets/2021-10-12-Switchboard-V2-Architecture-and-Data-Flows_FeedLifecycle.png)

Switchboard V2 gives more ways for you to join the network, whether that’s
operating a node, publishing feeds, or cranking the system. We are excited to
roll out the next version of our community curated oracles and can’t wait to see
what the community builds with it!
