---
title: "Switchboard V2 (pt.3) — Incentives"
description: ""
authors: [gallynaut]
tags: []
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

# Switchboard V2 (pt.3) — Incentives

When designing a decentralized protocol, it’s not enough to ensure your code is
well tested — you must also align the various parties so no single entity can
game the system. Today’s article will walk through the design of Switchboard V2
and how incentives are aligned to minimize trust in the protocol. Check out some
of our past articles for more background on Switchboard, and how it works.

Incentives are mechanisms to influence an individual or group to behave in a
certain manner. For example, tax cuts are a government incentive that reduces an
entity’s operating cost to promote spending. Similarly, many food delivery
companies subsidize delivery fees to capture future market share. These are all
extrinsic incentives because you expect some kind of reward for your actions.
Extrinsic incentives can only get you so far; eventually the food delivery
companies will need to turn a profit. Decentralized projects cannot operate in
the same manner as traditional companies where a single group can make the
decision to sacrifice profit for future market share. Instead the incentives
must be baked into the protocol and be known to all parties up front.

Switchboard was created to level the playing field and provide equal access to
on-chain data which allows anyone to suggest, approve, and update feeds. We hope
the community will be intrinsically motivated to support this vision and
actively participate to bring this to fruition. Switchboard will never whitelist
participants and will rely on the community to make improvements as the network
matures. The following paragraphs detail how Switchboard is designed and how the
community is able to tweak the protocol to align everyone’s incentives.

<!--truncate-->

## Governance

Let’s begin with the governance system. Switchboard is governed by its
stakeholders via a democratic DAO (Decentralized Autonomous Organization).
Switchboard participants are free to propose changes that fall into two
categories: Protocol proposals and Queue proposals.

Protocol proposals impact the overall architecture of Switchboard and have
deeper impacts on the network. An example of this might be increasing the number
of oracles a single queue can support or upgrading the on-chain program to add
additional features requested by the community. Protocol proposals impact all
queues on the network so changes should be carefully laid out and discussed
before reaching consensus.

Queue proposals impact a single oracle queue and can change various queue
parameters to help reach equilibrium between oracles and data feed updates. Some
of these parameters include:

- Minimum stake required for an Oracle to join the queue

- Criteria for a data feed to be automatically approved to use the queue

- Admitting additional data feeds to use the queue’s Oracle resources

- Slashing rates for misbehaving Oracles

Giving the users of the protocol a stake in the network (“skin in the game”)
aligns their incentives toward a common goal: providing permission-less on-chain
data for smart contract developers to reliably build upon. It is **NOT** in the
best interest of the switchboard community to implement changes that could
weaken the protocol or allow oracles to report dishonest data. Therefore it is
up to the community to remain an active participant and propose improvements
that align with the common goal and keep all parties happy.

Upon the launch of V2, the Switchboard DAO will provide at least three oracle
queues with varying levels of security based on the publisher’s needs.
Switchboard is a permission-less network so anyone can spin up their own Oracle
queues and control these parameters themselves. This is especially useful for
projects needing data from private endpoints or projects needing more
centralized control over their data. The rest of this article will be focused on
the Switchboard DAO and how oracle queues will be managed by the community.

Initially, the Switchboard DAO quorum will consist of oracle operators as they
are the most familiar with the protocol constraints. There is no shortage of
potential data feeds that developers want on-chain, so it’s the number of
oracles that will be the limiting factor as the network scales in the early
days. Oracle operators are best positioned to evaluate the impact of new feeds
and how it may impact their oracle’s performance or how changing oracle rewards
may entice their peers to game the system. It is important to keep the initial
quorum smaller in the early days of the network as it allows changes to be
implemented faster. Future DAO proposals will expand the DAO and include the
other network participants.

## Incentives

Switchboard at its fundamental level is a data provider for smart contracts.
Developers expect to receive a single result that is sourced from multiple
endpoints, confirmed by multiple oracles, and updated at a set interval. The
publisher is usually an on-chain consumer of the data so they are responsible
for setting the data feed configuration up-front to meet their use cases. The
following paragraphs detail how the Switchboard protocol leverages incentives to
give developers more confidence in the final oracle result.

### Job Diversity

As we are all too familiar with, the classical web lacks redundancy meaning a
single network failure can crash an entire corporation, as we saw with Facebook
a few weeks ago. This is not a concern for blockchains but being as Switchboard
is the gateway between the two, it is up to the protocol to mitigate any outside
network disruptions. To deal with potential data sources being unreachable,
Switchboard incentivizes Curators to scour the internet and find redundant data
sources. Switchboard will provide the initial, open source reference
implementation that will allow anyone to submit potential data sources into a
registry for the Publishers to aggregate and build data feeds from. In return,
curators are rewarded with a percentage of the fees generated from a data feed.
The goal is to give everyone a role in the network and reward them for improving
the integrity of the network. When building a data feed, publishers can also
specify the minimum number of endpoints that must respond before accepting a
result. This flexibility gives the publisher more control over how a result is
derived and gives them more confidence in the protocol.

### Rate Limiting

Requested data feed updates will often be hitting the same endpoint fairly
frequently (e.g. FTX.com). To mitigate rate limiting, some level of
pseudo-randomness jitter is introduced to the feed scheduler to prevent requests
hitting the same endpoint at the exact configured update interval. This helps
the network optimize for the lowest queries per second (QPS) and distributes
external requests more efficiently.

### Approving New Feeds

Data feeds are added to the network by either a DAO vote or having a
sufficiently long enough update interval. The update interval threshold is set
by the DAO and ensures new feeds joining the network can only consume a finite
amount of oracle resources in a set timeframe.

Publishers are responsible for funding a lease contract which provides the
upfront capital to reward oracle operators for processing their scheduled
updates. This up-front capital incentivizes publishers to only publish feeds
that are worthwhile and provide them some kind of value. A publisher is free to
propose any feed and eat the capital cost, as long as the oracles are rewarded
for their work. The lease contract amount is proportional to the length a
publisher expects to receive updates, the number of oracles processing a given
feed update, as well as the oracle rewards set by the DAO. Oracle rewards are an
upfront agreement between the publisher and oracle operators and should remain
static, at least in the initial DAO quorum where oracle operators could collude
to raise prices. Publishers are free to choose a queue with a lower cost but
they may be sacrificing security so it’s up to the publishers to find the right
balance.

### Extraneous Feeds

There may be a need for multiple data feeds resolving the same value but needing
different configurations depending on the publisher’s use case. For instance,
one feed may need a higher fidelity of confidence requiring a greater number of
oracle and job responses to dictate a final result, which in turn requires a
higher up-front capital cost for the publisher and could cause slower updates in
the event the set number of jobs fail to respond. Another feed may just need the
closest approximation as fast as possible. Switchboard’s flexibility gives
publishers a wide array of options to control how a value gets derived but like
all products, a publisher’s use case may change over time. In this event, a
publisher may elect to extend another publisher’s lease and spread the capital
cost to multiple on-chain consumers. This results in the feeds with the most use
having the lowest capital cost to the on-chain consumers. This also further
incentivizes curators to find resilient endpoints that get used frequently. This
positive feedback loop creates an environment where the strongest feeds get
extended and the remaining fall off the stack.

### Oracle Incentives

Switchboard is an open network allowing anyone to run an oracle but there are
many reasons an oracle may be incentivized to game the system. For example, if
we know a smart contract is using a particular feed to calculate a collateral
ratio, an oracle could under-report the asset price and cause a liquidation or
cause someone to not get the fair market rate for a trade. There’s a myriad of
reasons an oracle could try and cheat so careful consideration was given to
incentivize honest oracle behavior.

Oracles are required to stake the set amount of capital specified by the Queue’s
DAO, which acts as an insurance policy to entice oracle operators to report
honest results. Each oracle queue can have different staking requirements to
influence its security. If the staking requirement is set too low it could
attract dishonest oracles, but if set too high oracles may find a better use of
their capital elsewhere.

An oracle’s reward for a given round is determined by how many oracles respond
and the oracles response compared to the accepted, median result. Oracles are
rewarded each time they submit a result and then reevaluated when an accepted
result has been accepted.

When a result has been accepted, the oracle rewards are redistributed to the
oracles that responded within the acceptable range. The median result filters
the outliers and means an attacker needs to control the majority of the assigned
oracles in order to skew a result. This is why increasing the oracle stake
requirements increases the security of the network because the attacker will
need more up-front capital to fund the attack. Oracle’s get assigned to data
feeds in a round robin fashion with feeds scheduled at varying intervals and
oracle amounts so even if an attacker controls 10% of the oracles, there is no
guarantee their oracles will get assigned to the same feed.

### Slashing

After the on-chain contract has accepted a result, it rewards the oracles who
responded within the acceptable range, which is set when the queue is
initialized. Any oracle who responded outside the acceptable range will be
slashed and lose a portion of their staked capital. The slashing amount can be
changed by the DAO to further incentivize honest oracle behavior.

## Conclusion

Switchboard was designed to let the community dictate the protocol parameters at
the protocol and oracle queue level to meet any developers use case. Stay tuned
for more information on the initial DAO implementation.
